README.md, before:

# audiofone

Stand-alone phone audio interface.

# Prerequisites:

raspberry pi
* running [Raspberry Pi OS lite](https://www.raspberrypi.org/software/operating-systems/)
* ssh enabled and accessible with default pi/raspberry login
 * can do this by touching ssh file on boot partition:
 * `touch /boot/ssh`
* [sshpass](https://manpages.debian.org/stretch/sshpass/sshpass.1.en.html) so that ansible doesn't cry a lot
* pi network enabled and active
 * on the pi3, run raspi-config and enable+config wifi

 ## ansible on the development host (your laptop)

 Maybe you don't want to install a bunch of top-level packages to get ansible
 set up across your entire machine.  That's fine, it'll run from a
 virtualenv:

 ```
 $ virtualenv -p python3 ansible-env
 $ source ansible-env/bin/activate
 $ pip install ansible
 ```
Any time you need to run ansible commands now, just source the activate script
mentioned above.

# Serial terminal

Sometimes it's preferred just to have a [serial terminal](https://elinux.org/RPi_Serial_Connection),
that you can interact with from another computer via a usb<->serial cable:

```
echo enable_uart=1 >> /boot/config.txt
```

# Install:

* update deploy/hosts for correct pibox ip address
* ansible-playbook -i deploy/hosts playbook.yml

# Test on pi:

* sudo /opt/futel/src/hookswitch.py
* watch stdout
* short gpio pin 7 to gpio ground

# Hardware / Pinouts

* GPIO  7 - pin26 - Hookswitch
* GPIO 17 - pin11 - Input - keypad col 0
* GPIO 27 - pin13 - Input - keypad col 1
* GPIO 22 - pin15 - Input - keypad col 2
* GPIO 12 - pin32 - Output - keypad row 0
* GPIO 16 - pin36 - Output - keypad row 1
* GPIO 20 - pin38 - Output - keypad row 2
* GPIO 21 - pin40 - Output - keypad row 3
* headphone jack -> earpiece audio

# pd patch

listens on port 6066 for osc messages.
There is a run script in the pd directory, but it basically does this:

```
pd -alsa -send "pd dsp 1" -nogui pd/tones.pd
```

Commit message:

remove run script since we just use supervisor now

README.md, after:

# audiofone

Stand-alone phone audio interface.

# Prerequisites:

raspberry pi
* running [Raspberry Pi OS lite](https://www.raspberrypi.org/software/operating-systems/)
* ssh enabled and accessible with default pi/raspberry login
 * can do this by touching ssh file on boot partition:
 * `touch /boot/ssh`
* [sshpass](https://manpages.debian.org/stretch/sshpass/sshpass.1.en.html) so that ansible doesn't cry a lot
* pi network enabled and active
 * on the pi3, run raspi-config and enable+config wifi

 ## ansible on the development host (your laptop)

 Maybe you don't want to install a bunch of top-level packages to get ansible
 set up across your entire machine.  That's fine, it'll run from a
 virtualenv:

 ```
 $ virtualenv -p python3 ansible-env
 $ source ansible-env/bin/activate
 $ pip install ansible
 ```
Any time you need to run ansible commands now, just source the activate script
mentioned above.

# Serial terminal

Sometimes it's preferred just to have a [serial terminal](https://elinux.org/RPi_Serial_Connection),
that you can interact with from another computer via a usb<->serial cable:

```
echo enable_uart=1 >> /boot/config.txt
```

# Install:

* update deploy/hosts for correct pibox ip address
* ansible-playbook -i deploy/hosts playbook.yml

# Test on pi:

* sudo /opt/futel/src/hookswitch.py
* watch stdout
* short gpio pin 7 to gpio ground

# Hardware / Pinouts

* GPIO  7 - pin26 - Hookswitch
* GPIO 17 - pin11 - Input - keypad col 0
* GPIO 27 - pin13 - Input - keypad col 1
* GPIO 22 - pin15 - Input - keypad col 2
* GPIO 12 - pin32 - Output - keypad row 0
* GPIO 16 - pin36 - Output - keypad row 1
* GPIO 20 - pin38 - Output - keypad row 2
* GPIO 21 - pin40 - Output - keypad row 3
* headphone jack -> earpiece audio

# pd patch

Audio is played through pd.  Python just commands it through
OSC (open sound control) messages over local UDP.

listens on port 6066 for osc messages.
It is run from supervisord, you can steal the command
from `src/etc/supervisor/conf.d/puredata.conf`.
